mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalkar
suppose x plus the square root of one
plus
x squared multiplied by y plus the
square root of one plus y squared
is equal to one what is the value of the
quantity
x plus y squared equal to
x and y are real numbers pause the video
if you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we will solve this equation by writing
an expression for y
in terms of x to get started suppose u
is equal to x plus the square root of 1
plus x squared
we will substitute that in we will then
divide both sides by
u and then subtract y from both sides of
the equation
we will then square both sides of the
equation
the left hand side becomes one plus y
squared
we will then square the right hand side
of the equation
we'll substitute that in we can now
cancel out the y
squared terms on both sides we now have
a linear equation in terms of y
let's go ahead and solve for y we'll
multiply both sides by u
and then we'll distribute the u we can
then divide both sides by 2
and we have an equation for y in terms
of u
let's simplify this expression u
is equal to x plus the square root of 1
plus x
squared what's its reciprocal equal to
we take its reciprocal and we can do a
classic trick
we'll multiply the numerator and
denominator by the conjugate
what this will do is it will make a
difference of squares in the denominator
this will simplify matters tremendously
now from here we can cancel out the x
squared terms in the denominator and
we're left with negative one
therefore 1 over u is equal to the
following
negative x plus the square root of 1
plus x squared
we can then substitute that in for what
we've solved for y
we then take 1 over u minus u
and then we simplify this notice that
the radical terms
will cancel out and we are left with
just negative 2x
thus y is equal to negative x
therefore we can solve the question
x plus y will be equal to x minus x
which is equal to zero and therefore
this
evaluates to be zero and that's our
answer
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on youtube
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]
you